DAG deploy documentation (#1381)
astronomer/docs: astro/ci-cd.md

Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery (CI/CD) is an industry term that refers to programmatic workflows that automate key parts of the software development lifecycle, including code changes, builds, and testing. CI/CD enables teams to develop faster, more securely, and more reliably.

On Astro, you can use Deployment API keys to automate deploying code changes to a Deployment. Astronomer recommends hosting your Astro project source code in a version control tool and setting up a CI/CD workflow for all production environments.

There are many benefits to configuring a CI/CD workflow on Astro. Specifically, you can:

> - Avoid having to manually run `astro deploy` with the Astro CLI every time you make a change to your Astro project.

Author: ```suggestion
- Avoid manually running `astro deploy` every time you make a change to your Astro project.
```

> - Enforce that all changes to existing DAGs or other files in your Astro project are reviewed and approved by your team before they get pushed to Astro.

Author: ```suggestion
- Ensure that all changes to your Astro project are reviewed and approved by your team before they get pushed to Astro.
```

- Automate promoting code across development and production environments on Astro when pull requests to certain branches are merged.
- Enforce automated testing, which increases code quality and allows your team to respond quickly in case of an error or failure.

> - Configure more granular user permissionss by directly managing access to your Astro project source code.

Author: ```suggestion
- Configure more granular Astro user permissions by managing access to your Astro project source code.
```

Use the Astronomer CI/CD templates to automate deploying code to Astro with popular CI/CD management tools, including GitHub Actions and Circle CI.

## Prerequisites

- A [Deployment API key ID and secret](api-keys.md).
- A CI/CD management tool, such as [GitHub Actions](https://docs.github.com/en/actions).
- An [Astro project](create-project.md) that is hosted in a place that your CI/CD tool can access.

## CI/CD templates

Templates allow you to easily configure automtated workflows using popular CI/CD tools. Each template can be implemented as-is to produce a simple CI/CD pipeline. Astronomer recommends reconfiguring the templates to work with your own directory structures, workflows, and best practices.

Astro supports two deployment methods:

> - Image-only deploys whereby all files in your Astro project are built into a single Docker image and pushed to Astro in a single step.

Author: ```suggestion
- Image-only deploys where all files in your Astro project are built into a Docker image and pushed to Astro in a single step.
```

> - DAG-based deploys that utilize the [DAG-only deploy](deploy-code.md#DAG-only-deploys) feature and separate DAGs in your Astro project from the Docker image that's built with all other files.

Author: ```suggestion
- [DAG-based deploys](deploy-code.md#DAG-only-deploys) that deploy DAGs in your Astro project separately from your project files.
```

You can use the Astronomer CI/CD templates with popular CI/CD management tools, including GitHub Actions and Circle CI.

> Astronomer currently has two types CI/CD Templates. A Regular one step Deploy templates and a DAG Deploy templates that utilize the [DAG Deploy](deploy-code.md#DAG-only-deploys) feature. If your deployment has DAG Deploy enabled the DAG Deploy templates are recommended, but both templates will work with any Astro Deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Astronomer currently has two types CI/CD Templates. A Regular one step Deploy templates and a DAG Deploy templates that utilize the [DAG Deploy](deploy-code.md#DAG-only-deploys) feature. If your deployment has DAG Deploy enabled the DAG Deploy templates are recommended, but both templates will work.
```

> The DAG Deploy templates will do a DAG only deploy if files in the dags folder change and do an image deploy if any other file changes. This has the benifit of not 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The DAG Deploy templates will do a DAG only deploy if files in the `dags` folder change and do an image deploy if any other file changes. This has the benifit of not 
```

This workflow is equivalent to the following bash script:

```sh
# Set Deployment API key credentials as environment variables
export ASTRONOMER_KEY_ID="<your-api-key-id>"
export ASTRONOMER_KEY_SECRET="<your-api-key-secret>"

# Install the latest version of Astro CLI
curl -sSL install.astronomer.io | sudo bash -s

# Determine if only DAG files have changes
OUTPUT=$(git diff main... --name-only)
DAGS_DEPLOY=FALSE
REGULAR_DEPLOY=FALSE
local IFS=$'\n'
local lines=($OUTPUT)
local i
for (( i=0; i<${#lines[@]}; i++ )) ; do
    if [[ "${lines[$i]}" == *"dags/"* ]]
    then
        DAGS_DEPLOY=TRUE
    else
        REGULAR_DEPLOY=TRUE
    fi
done

# If only DAGs changed deploy only the DAGs in your 'dags' folder to your Deployment
if [ $DAGS_DEPLOY == TRUE && $REGULAR_DEPLOY == FALSE ]
then
    astro deploy --dags
fi

# If any other files changed build your Astro project into a Docker image, push the image to your Deployment, and then push and DAG changes
if [ $REGULAR_DEPLOY == TRUE ]
then
    astro deploy
fi
```

:::info

> All CI/CD pipelines that use the DAG-based deployment method require [Astro CLI v1.7+](cli/release-notes.md) to deploy. All CI/CD templates in this document automatically install the latest version of the Astro CLI. If your CI/CD pipeline does not automatically install the latest version of the Astro CLI, make sure to specify version 1.7 or above.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All CI/CD pipelines that use the DAG-based deployment method require [Astro CLI v1.7 or later](cli/release-notes.md) to deploy. All CI/CD templates in this document automatically install the latest version of the Astro CLI. If your CI/CD pipeline does not automatically install the latest version of the Astro CLI, make sure to specify version 1.7 or above.
```

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/104205257/200833287-06c75f1d-5ad3-4fce-9f0a-95902e8a5e02.png)

This workflow is equivalent to the following bash script:

```sh
# Set Deployment API key credentials as environment variables
export ASTRONOMER_KEY_ID="<your-api-key-id>"
export ASTRONOMER_KEY_SECRET="<your-api-key-secret>"

# Install the latest version of Astro CLI
curl -sSL install.astronomer.io | sudo bash -s

# Determine if only dags have changes 
OUTPUT=$(git diff main... --name-only)
DAGS_DEPLOY=FALSE
REGULAR_DEPLOY=FALSE
local IFS=$'\n'
local lines=($OUTPUT)
local i
for (( i=0; i<${#lines[@]}; i++ )) ; do
    if [[ "${lines[$i]}" == *"dags/"* ]]
    then
        DAGS_DEPLOY=TRUE
    else
        REGULAR_DEPLOY=TRUE
    fi
done

# If only DAGs changed deploy only the DAGs in your 'dags' folder to your Deployment
if [ $DAGS_DEPLOY == TRUE && $REGULAR_DEPLOY == FALSE ]
then
    astro deploy --dags
fi

# If any other files changed build your Astro project into a Docker image, push the image to your Deployment, and then push and DAG changes
if [ $REGULAR_DEPLOY == TRUE ]
then
    astro deploy
fi
```

:::info

> All CI/CD templates for `DAG-based deploys use [Astro CLI v1.7+](cli/release-notes.md) to deploy via CI/CD. To upgrade, see [Install the Astro CLI](cli/install-cli.md).

Author: ```suggestion
All CI/CD templates for DAG-based deploys use [Astro CLI v1.7+](cli/release-notes.md) to deploy via CI/CD. To upgrade, see [Install the Astro CLI](cli/install-cli.md).
```

            REGULAR_DEPLOY=FALSE
            local IFS=$'\n'
            local lines=($OUTPUT)
            local i
            for (( i=0; i<${#lines[@]}; i++ )) ; do
                if [[ "${lines[$i]}" == *"dags/"* ]]
                then
                    DAGS_DEPLOY=TRUE
                else
                    REGULAR_DEPLOY=TRUE
                fi
            done

            echo "DAGS_DEPLOY=$DAGS_DEPLOY" >> $GITHUB_OUTPUT
            echo "REGULAR_DEPLOY=$REGULAR_DEPLOY" >> $GITHUB_OUTPUT
          id: deployment-type
        # If only DAGs changed, do a DAG-only deploy
        - name: DAG Deploy to Astro
          if: steps.deployment-type.outputs.DAGS_DEPLOY == 'true' && steps.deployment-type.outputs.REGULAR_DEPLOY == 'false'
          run: |
            curl -sSL https://install.astronomer.io | sudo bash -s -- v1.7.0
            astro deploy --dags
        # If any other files changed, deploy the entire Astro project
        - name: Image and DAG Deploy to Astro
          if: steps.deployment-type.outputs.REGULAR_DEPLOY == 'true'
          run: |
            curl -sSL https://install.astronomer.io | sudo bash -s -- v1.7.0
            astro deploy
    ```

> This Github Actions script checks the diff between your current commit and your `main` branch when a commit is pushed to `main`. Make sure to customize the script for for your specific use case. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This Github Actions script checks the diff between your current commit and your `main` branch when a commit is pushed to `main`. Make sure to customize the script for your specific use case. 
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="multibranch">

The following setup can be used to create a multi-branch CI/CD pipeline using GitHub Actions. A multi-branch pipeline can be used to test DAGs in a development Deployment and promote them to a production Deployment. The finished pipeline deploys your code to Astro as demonstrated in the following diagram:

![Diagram showing how a multibranch CI/CD pipeline works](/img/docs/multibranch.png)

> This setup assumes the following prerequisites:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Prerequisites:
```

- You have both a `dev` and `main` branch of an Astro project hosted in a single GitHub repository.
- You have respective `dev` and `prod` Deployments on Astro where you deploy your GitHub branches to.
- You have unique [Deployment API keys and secrets](api-keys.md) for both of your Deployments.

> 

Reviewer 2: ## Setup

          ASTRONOMER_KEY_SECRET: ${{ secrets.PROD_ASTRONOMER_KEY_SECRET }}
        runs-on: ubuntu-latest
        needs: job1
        steps:
          - name: checkout repo
            uses: actions/checkout@v2.3.4
          # If only DAGs changed do a DAG Deploy
          - name: DAG Deploy to Astro
            if: needs.deployment-type.outputs.DAGS_DEPLOY == 'true' && needs.deployment-type.outputs.REGULAR_DEPLOY == 'false'
            run: |
              curl -sSL https://install.astronomer.io | sudo bash -s -- v1.7.0
              astro deploy --dags
          # If any other files changed do a regular Deploy
          - name: Image and DAG Deploy to Astro
            if: needs.deployment-type.outputs.REGULAR_DEPLOY == 'true'
            run: |
              curl -sSL https://install.astronomer.io | sudo bash -s -- v1.7.0
              astro deploy
    ```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="custom">

If your Astro project requires additional build-time arguments to build an image, you need to define these build arguments using Docker's [`build-push-action`](https://github.com/docker/build-push-action).

#### Prerequisites

> To complete this setup, you need:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To complete this setup, you need:
```

Remove.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### GitHub Actions (Two-step)

The following templates are examples of how to implement DAG-only deploys in GitHub Actions. These templates can be modified to run on other CI/CD tools.

<Tabs
    defaultValue="standard"

>     groupId= "github-actions"

Author: ```suggestion
    groupId= "github-actions-two-step"
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### GitHub Actions (DAG-based deploy)

The following templates are examples of how to implement DAG-only deploys in GitHub Actions. These templates can be modified to run on other CI/CD tools.

<Tabs
    defaultValue="standard"

>     groupId= "github-actions"

Author: ```suggestion
    groupId= "github-actions-dag-based-deploy"
```

            ASTRONOMER_KEY_ID: $(ASTRONOMER_KEY_ID)
            ASTRONOMER_KEY_SECRET: $(ASTRONOMER_KEY_SECRET)
    `}</code></pre>

## Use CI/CD for DAG-only deploys

> A DAG-only deploy workflow utilizes the `--dags` CLI flag to improve the performance of your CI/CD workflows. These CI/CD pipelines deploy your DAGs only when modify files in your `dags` folder, and they deploy your entire Astro project as an image when any other files or directories are modified. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A DAG-only deploy workflow utilizes the `--dags` CLI flag to improve the performance of your CI/CD workflows. These CI/CD pipelines deploy your DAGs only when files in your `dags` folder are modified, and they deploy your entire Astro project as an image when any other files or directories are modified. 
```

This workflow has a number of benefits: 

> - Your Deployment's infrastructure will not experience down time for updates to DAG code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Your Deployment's infrastructure will not experience downtime for updates to DAG code.
```

          OUTPUT=$(git diff --name-only HEAD^ HEAD)
          DAGS_DEPLOY=FALSE
          REGULAR_DEPLOY=FALSE
          local IFS=$'\n'
          local lines=($OUTPUT)
          local i
          for (( i=0; i<${#lines[@]}; i++ )) ; do
              if [[ "${lines[$i]}" == *"dags/"* ]]
              then
                  DAGS_DEPLOY=TRUE
              else
                  REGULAR_DEPLOY=TRUE
              fi
          done

          echo "DAGS_DEPLOY=$DAGS_DEPLOY" >> $GITHUB_OUTPUT
          echo "REGULAR_DEPLOY=$REGULAR_DEPLOY" >> $GITHUB_OUTPUT
        id: deployment-type
      # If only DAGs changed do a DAG Deploy
      - name: DAG Deploy to Astro
        if: steps.deployment-type.outputs.DAGS_DEPLOY == 'true' && steps.deployment-type.outputs.REGULAR_DEPLOY == 'false'
        run: |
          curl -sSL https://install.astronomer.io | sudo bash -s -- v1.7.0
          astro deploy --dags
      # If any other files changed do a regular Deploy
      - name: Image and DAG Deploy to Astro
        if: steps.deployment-type.outputs.REGULAR_DEPLOY == 'true'
        run: |
          curl -sSL https://install.astronomer.io | sudo bash -s -- v1.7.0
          astro deploy
    ```

> This Github Actions script checks the diff between your current commit and main when push a commit to main. Make sure to customize the script for for your specific use case. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This Github Actions script checks the diff between your current commit and main when a commit is pushed to main. Make sure to customize the script for for your specific use case. 
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="multibranch">

> The following setup can be used to create a multi-branch CI/CD pipeline using GitHub Actions. A multi-branch pipeline makes can be used to test DAGs in a development Deployment and promote them to a production Deployment. The finished pipeline would deploy your code to Astro as demonstrated in the following diagram:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following setup can be used to create a multi-branch CI/CD pipeline using GitHub Actions. A multi-branch pipeline can be used to test DAGs in a development Deployment and promote them to a production Deployment. The finished pipeline would deploy your code to Astro as demonstrated in the following diagram:
```
